# Task Tracker

## Description
A CLI program for keeping track of tasks. Based on this assignment: https://roadmap.sh/projects/task-tracker

### Languages
* Python
* JSON

### Required Software
* Python 3.10 or later

## Installation
"taskTracker.py" can be downloaded on its own, or you can clone the whole repository to your machine.

## Usage
These instructions assume the user has knowledge running python applications from the command line.

This program is used to create and manage a list of tasks saved in a JSON file. Each task has the following attributes:

* "id": unique number used to identify the task.
* "description": text describing the task.
* "status": text describing the status of the task. Can either be "todo", "in-progress", or "done". "todo" by default.
* "createdAt": the date and time that the task was first created.
* "updatedAt": the date and time that the status or description of the task was last changed.

There are six possible functions when using this program. The examples shown use Windows git bash for execution.

### add
This adds a task to the file "tasks.json". If the file does not exist, it will be created.

The user must provide the argument *add* followed by the name of the task. If there is a space or non-alphanumeric character in the name, it must be contained in double quotation marks.

````py taskTracker.py add "Wash Dishes"````

This will add a task to "tasks.json" with the description "Wash Dishes". The id is automatically generated by incrementing the value of the last task on the list's "id" attribute. It's status will be "todo" by default. The "createdAt" and "updatedAt" attributes are both set to the current date and time automatically. 

### list
Lists all tasks in "tasks.json", separated by a line of dashes.

````py taskTracker.py list````

If "tasks.json" is not empty, it will return output like the following example

```
1: Wash Dishes
Status: done
Created: 2024-12-14 13:48:38.013705
Updated: 2024-12-17 12:28:44.886513
-------------------------------------
2: Clean room
Status: todo
Created: 2024-12-14 13:58:24.243554
Updated: 2024-12-14 13:58:24.243554
-------------------------------------
```

The user can provide additional arguments to only list tasks that have reached a certain status.
For example:

````py taskTracker.py list in-progress````

This will only list all tasks with the "in-progress" status.

### update
Updates the "description" attribute of a specified task. The user must provide an argument for the the task's "id" number and the new text for the description. 

````py taskTracker.py update 2 "Fix pipes"````

If the task is found, the description will be updated and the "updatedAt" attribute will be changed to the current time. Otherwise, the program will notify the user that the task does not exist.

### mark-in-progress
Changes the "status" of a specified task to "in-progress". The user must provide an argument for the task's "id" number.

````py taskTracker.py mark-in-progress 1 ````

If the task is found, the status will be changed and the "updatedAt" attribute will be changed to the current time. Otherwise, the program will notify the user that the task does not exist.

### mark-done
Changes the "status" of a specified task to "done". The user must provide an argument for the task's "id" number.

````py taskTracker.py mark-done 1 ````

If the task is found, the status will be changed and the "updatedAt" attribute will be changed to the current time. Otherwise, the program will notify the user that the task does not exist.

### delete
Permantly removes a specified task from "tasks.json". The user must provide an argument for the task's "id" number.

````py taskTracker.py delete 1 ````

If the task is found, the user will be prompted to confirm that they want to delete the task.

````Are you sure you want to delete task 1: Wash Dished? (y/n) ````

If the user responds with 'y' or 'Y', the task is deleted. Otherwise, the list is unchanged.

## Author
All code written by Tomas Medina

## License
MIT License

Copyright(c) Tomas Medina

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.